+++
# vim:set nosmartindent nocindent ft=markdown:
date = "2012-12-05T15:23:59"
draft = false
title = "0x0 +2"
+++
Doszedł do mnie taki oto kawałek: `

    
    
    >>> 0x0 +2
    4
    >>> 0x0 +3.5
    6.5
    >>> 0x0 +2e1
    757

` Zagadka za 0 punktów: co to za język programowania? :>

Przyszło od razu z wyjaśnieniem:

>

>      once their lexer detects "0x", it skips all '0's, then calls strtol()

>      so: tokptr = "0x0 +2;", toklen = 3

>      skip 0x: tokptr = "0 +2;", toklen = 1

>      skip all '0's: tokptr = " +2;", toklen = 0

>      call strtol(" +2", NULL, 16) ==> 2

>      then it proceeds to parse the remaining program starting from " +2;"

>            because that's where the previous token ends

>      and this is how 0x0 ends up having the value 2

>      0x0 +2e1 ends up being 757 because the first pass interprets 2e1 as a
hex integer

>            while the second pass thinks it's a floating point number

>      so it's really 0x2e1 + 2.0e1

>  

Źródło: [strona domowa
internetów](http://www.reddit.com/r/lolphp/comments/ps6x5/0x0_wat/).

# Komentarze

* Stanisław 'dozzie' Klekot (2012-12-05 17:49:02): <p>Holy fscking bubbles! To
  nawet ja takich baboli nie wstawiłem w swoich parserach, a za eksperta się nie
  uważam O_o</p>  <p>Ale trzeba być naprawdę głupim żeby tak spaprać tokenizer
  pisany we fleksie.</p>
* mt3o (2012-12-05 18:17:57): <p>PHP. Było na roflcopter.</p>
* pecet (2012-12-05 18:59:44): <blockquote>   <p>PHP. Było na roflcopter.</p>
  </blockquote>  <p>brawo szerloku</p>
* Shelly (2014-09-02 12:59:51): <p>My programmer is trying to persuade me to
  move to .net from PHP.<br /> I have always disliked the idea because of the
  costs. But he's tryiong none the less.</p>  <p>I've been using WordPress on
  various websites for about a year and am concerned about switching to another
  platform.<br /> I have heard excellent things about blogengine.net. Is <br />
  there a way I can transfer all my wordpress <br /> posts into it? Any kind of
  help would be really appreciated!</p>
